---
layout: post
title: "What is Pareto´s rule and how to use it to improve your productivity"
date: 2020-01-27 23:45:13 -0400
background: '/img/posts/02.jpg'
---

## Background

Have you heard that something takes more time in the first intend? It could'nt seem 

The Pareto principle states that for many outcomes, roughly 80% of consequences come from 20% of the causes (the “vital few”).[1] Other names for this principle are the 80/20 rule, the law of the vital few, or the principle of factor sparsity


Pareto's observation was in connection with population and wealth. Pareto noticed that approximately 80% of Italy's land was owned by 20% of the population.[7] He then carried out surveys on a variety of other countries and found to his surprise that a similar distribution applied.

A chart that gave the effect a very visible and comprehensible form, the so-called "champagne glass" effect,[8] was contained in the 1992 United Nations Development Program Report, which showed that distribution of global income is very uneven, with the richest 20% of the world's population generating 82.7% of the world's income.[9] Among nations, the Gini index shows that wealth distributions vary substantially around this norm.


In computer science the Pareto principle can be applied to optimization efforts.[17] For example, Microsoft noted that by fixing the top 20% of the most-reported bugs, 80% of the related errors and crashes in a given system would be eliminated.[18] Lowell Arthur expressed that "20% of the code has 80% of the errors. Find them, fix them!"[19] It was also discovered that in general the 80% of a certain piece of software can be written in 20% of the total allocated time. Conversely, the hardest 20% of the code takes 80% of the time. This factor is usually a part of COCOMO estimating for software coding.

WordPerfect and other software developers identify what customers want most of the time and how they want to do it: the 80/20 rule (people use 20% of a program’s functions 80% of the time). Software developers work to make high-use functions as simple and automatic and inevitable as possible.[20]

Bloque de código con sintaxis resaltada

# Título 1 o h1
## Título 2 o h2
### Título 3 o h3
#### Título 4 o h4
##### Título 5 o h5
###### Título 6 o h6

- Lista
- Con viñetas

1. Lista
2. Numerada

**Negritas**
*Itálica*
***Itálica & negritas juntas***
`Código`

Línea horizontal \\

*******